Alerting docs: add `Template variable interpolation` section in file provisioning (#84106)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/alerting/set-up/provision-alerting-resources/file-provisioning/index.md

    name: mti_1
```

> ## Template variable interpolation

Reviewer: is there another word we could use for this? i'm not sure if it's an official term but seems odd to me?

Author: `Interpolation` is the term used in https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/provisioning/#using-environment-variables.

Other term is `variable replacement`.  Replacement of template variables with environment variables values

Provisioning interpolates environment variables using the `$variable` syntax.

```yaml
contactPoints:
  - orgId: 1
    name: My Contact Email Point
    receivers:
      - uid: 1
        type: email
        settings:
          addresses: $EMAIL
```

> In this example, provisioning will replace `$EMAIL` with the value of the `EMAIL` environment variable or an empty string if it is not present. For more information, refer to [Using environment variables in the Provision documentation][provisioning_env_vars].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, provisioning replaces `$EMAIL` with the value of the `EMAIL` environment variable or an empty string if it is not present. For more information, refer to [Using environment variables in the Provision documentation][provisioning_env_vars].
```

Note that the provisioning interpolation may unexpectedly substitute template variables in alerting resources.

In alerting resources, you can use template variables with the same `$variable` syntax for some properties. For instance:

- Alert rule labels
- Alert rule annotations (omits interpolation)
- Contact point messages
- Notification template content (omits interpolation)

Properties that omit the provisioning interpolation, like annotation or notification templates, do not require changes. For the others, if you’ve defined a template variable such as `$variable`, **use `$$variable` to avoid interpolation.**

> For example, considering a `subject` property in the `contactPoints.receivers.settings` object alongside an undefined environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you could use a `subject` property in the `contactPoints.receivers.settings` object alongside an undefined environment variable.
```

> Note that the provisioning interpolation may unexpectedly substitute template variables in alerting resources.
> 
> In alerting resources, you can use template variables with the same `$variable` syntax for some properties. For instance:
> 
> - Alert rule labels
> - Alert rule annotations (omits interpolation)
> - Contact point messages
> - Notification template content (omits interpolation)
> 
> Properties that omit the provisioning interpolation, like annotation or notification templates, do not require changes. For the others, if you’ve defined a template variable such as `$variable`, **use `$$variable` to avoid interpolation.**
> 
> For example, you could use a `subject` property in the `contactPoints.receivers.settings` object alongside an undefined environment variable.
> 
> 1. `subject: '{{ $labels }}'` will convert to `subject: '{{ }}'` which is incorrect.
> 1. `subject: '{{ $$labels }}'` will convert to `subject: '{{ $labels }}'` as desired.

Reviewer 2: Here are some suggestions on the wording. I also confirmed all of the fields that do not currently support interpolation so we can comprehensively list them. Feel free to modify/pick and choose what you want from here, though I think listing all of the unsupported fields should at least be included.

```suggestion
In this example, provisioning replaces `$EMAIL` with the value of the `EMAIL` environment variable or an empty string if it is not present. For more information, refer to [Using environment variables in the Provision documentation][provisioning_env_vars].

In alerting resources, most properties support template variable interpolation, with a few exceptions:

- Alert rule annotations: `groups[].rules[].annotations`
- Alert rule time range: `groups[].rules[].relativeTimeRange`
- Alert rule query model: `groups[].rules[].data.model`
- Mute timings name: `muteTimes[].name`
- Mute timings time intervals: `muteTimes[].time_intervals[]`
- Notification template name: `templates[].name`
- Notification template content: `templates[].template`

Note for properties that support interpolation, you may unexpectedly substitute template variables when not intended. To avoid this, you can escape the `$variable` with `$$variable`.

For example, when provisioning a `subject` property in a `contactPoints.receivers.settings` object that is meant to use the `$labels` variable.

1. `subject: '{{ $labels }}'` will interpolate, incorrectly defining the subject as `subject: '{{ }}'`.
1. `subject: '{{ $$labels }}'` will not interpolate, correctly defining the subject as `subject: '{{ $labels }}'`.
```
